Reworked the validator docs and configs (#6140)
iotaledger/iota: docs/content/_snippets/operator/validator-generate-info.mdx

## 1. Generate Validator Information

:::info Key Security

It is recommended to run these steps in a secure local environment to avoid
storing the private key controlling the validator rewards on the node.

:::

> How to generate a new set of Validator Information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to Generate a New Set of Validator Information
```

> ### 1.1. Make sure you have the CLI installed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 1.1. Install and configure the IOTA CLI
```

See [Install IOTA](https://docs.iota.org/developer/getting-started/install-iota) on how to install the `iota` CLI and [Connect to an IOTA Network](https://docs.iota.org/developer/getting-started/connect) on how to select the correct environment (Mainnet or Testnet).

> ### 1.2. Generate a new keypair

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 1.2. Generate a new key pair
```

```bash
iota client new-address
```

> This generates a new keypair and stores the files within the standard working config folder, i.e., `~/.iota/iota_config/` (in unix).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This generates a new key pair and stores the files within the standard working config folder, `~/.iota/iota_config/` (in Unix).
```

You can skip this step if you already have an account configured. If you would like to import an existing keypair see `iota keytool import -h`.

> Executing the above command provides the keypair info as output, e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Executing the above command provides the key pair info as output, e.g.:
```

```bash
╭──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ Created new keypair and saved it to keystore.                                                    │
├────────────────┬─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ alias          │ crazy-pearl                                                                     │
│ address        │ 0x1ce209a128ab5185db4cab896bc88b255bce3fbdb1a2b3fa8ef1edf911628e3e              │
│ keyScheme      │ ed25519                                                                         │
│ recoveryPhrase │ limit chest cloth this possible sister kingdom thunder brother lame know orphan │
╰────────────────┴─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```

> - `alias`: a human-readable identifier to use within the CLI scope to refer to a keypair;
> - `address`: the public address representing the keypair;
> - `keyScheme`: the cryptographic scheme used to derive the keypair; the `ed25519` is the standard scheme, used most of the times; the `BLS12381` scheme is used for the so called `authority_key`;
> - `recoveryPhrase`: a list of 12 words used by the cryptographic scheme used to derive the keypair;
>   pair.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `alias`: A human-readable identifier to use within the CLI scope to refer to a key pair.
- `address`: The public address representing the key pair.
- `keyScheme`: The cryptographic scheme used to derive the keypair; the `ed25519` is the standard scheme, used most of the time, while the `BLS12381` scheme is used for the `authority_key`.
- `recoveryPhrase`: A list of 12 words used by the cryptographic scheme used to derive the key pair.
```

> This keypair will be referred to, from now on, as `account-key`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::info
From now on, this key pair will be referred to as `account-key`.
:::
```

> ### 1.3. Switch to the validator account key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 1.3. Switch to the validator account key
```

> This makes that keypair active in the CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This makes that key pair active in the CLI.
```

```bash
iota client switch --address <alias>
```

> ### 1.4. Generate the validator data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 1.4. Generate the validator data
```

> Finally, all validator's remaining keypairs and data can be generated using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, all validator's remaining key pairs and data can be generated using the following command:
```

```bash
iota validator make-validator-info \
    <name> \
    <description> \
    <image_url> \
    <project_url> \
    <host_name> \
```

> - `name`: human-readable validator name, e.g., `validator1`;
> - `description`: human-readable validator description, e.g., `this is a validator`;
> - `image_url`: validator image url, e.g., `https://www.iota.org/favicon.png`;
> - `project_url`: validator project url, e.g., `https://www.iota.org`;
> - `host_name`: the host name that is used to generate the validator `network_address`, `p2p-address` and `primary_address`, e.g., `validator1.iota.org`;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `name`: A human-readable validator name, e.g., `validator1`.
- `description`: A human-readable validator description, e.g., `this is a validator`.
- `image_url`: The validator image URL, e.g., `https://www.iota.org/favicon.png`.
- `project_url`: The validator project URL, e.g., `https://www.iota.org`.
- `host_name`: The host name that is used to generate the validator `network_address`, `p2p-address` and `primary_address`, e.g., `validator1.iota.org`.
```

> This command generates a `validator.info` file and 4 key pair files in the same directory where the command was executed. All keys but the `account.key` will need to be copied over to the validator node and included in the YAML configuration of the node. See [Validator Node Configuration](https://docs.iota.org/operator/validator-node/configuration)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command generates a `validator.info` file and 4 key pair files in the same directory where the command was executed. All keys but the `account.key` will need to be copied over to the validator node and included in the YAML configuration of the node. See [Validator Node Configuration](https://docs.iota.org/operator/validator-node/configuration).
```

- `account.key` contains an ed25519 private key _(keep this one private)_

> - `network.key` contains an ed25519 private key _(_copy over to the validator node)_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `network.key` contains an ed25519 private key _(copy over to the validator node)_
```

> - `account.key` contains an ed25519 private key _(keep this one private)_
> - `network.key` contains an ed25519 private key _(_copy over to the validator node)_
> - `authority.key` contains a BLS12381 private key _(copy over to the validator node)_
> - `protocol.key`contains an ed25519 private key _(copy over to the validator node)_
> - `validator.info` contains the validator information, e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `account.key` contains an ed25519 private key _(keep this one private)_.
- `network.key` contains an ed25519 private key _(_copy over to the validator node)_.
- `authority.key` contains a BLS12381 private key _(copy over to the validator node)_.
- `protocol.key`contains an ed25519 private key _(copy over to the validator node)_.
- `validator.info` contains the validator information, e.g.:
```

```yaml
---
info:
  name: validator1
  account-address: "0x547b20ffca39cf1c9f57e7d1ff946d4720df48bb582e89b763b5d488ec23f5fa"
  authority-key: h93SKC2tFXMDt+lu4SRb3KA668/lJCPREHnzYZelaQ3iAu0RuiHqETBg/1jkV9HFCECvBCrzKjTuVD/bt5yUDon5nPKQmCyYEmx0NRQmxfP7Szpg17YZ388eT+aTnGEK
  protocol-key: Lm1Iy5KDV0qlMcGVnQNatAMLxhg8FOxE2q/QUkgLAYA=
  network-key: ADBhWCBOzqIvsDa9cowpSQ4t1nz+ZQYeRLBGQYe1Dy8=
  gas-price: 1000
  commission-rate: 200
  network-address: /dns/validator1.iota.org/tcp/8080/http
  p2p-address: /dns/validator1.iota.org/udp/8084
  primary-address: /dns/validator1.iota.org/udp/8081
  description: validator-description1
  image-url: "https://www.iota.org/favicon.png"
  project-url: "https://www.iota.org"
proof_of_possession: hpep8yY/JCj/zTEv9Ws7Qow3KO+2jrsX/yAUAykfxzS5vsg7vlwsscJpspf4XF/u
```

> > **Note**
> > Maybe you already noticed that port 8081 is using UDP, which conflicts with the firewall rules.
> > This is a known bug, but the node is actually communicating via TCP.
> 
> where:
> 
> - `name`: human-readable validator name, defined above;
> - `account-address`: address derived from the `account key` public key;
> - `authority-key`: public key derived from the `authority key` private key;
> - `protocol-key`: public key derived from the `protocol key` private key;
> - `network-key`: public key derived from the `network key` private key;
> - `gas-price`: a unsigned integer value indicating the gas price proposed for the first epoch. This is unused starting with protocol version v5;
> - `commission-rate`: the validator commission rate, i.e., the fee charged by the validator for staking services; the default set at 2% (200);
> - `network-address`: the network address of the validator, defined using the `host_name`;
> - `p2p-address`: the address of the validator used for p2p activities such as state sync, defined using the `host_name`;
> - `primary-address`: the primary address of the validator used for the consensus, defined using the `host_name`;
> - `description`: human-readable validator description, defined above;
> - `image-url`: validator image url, defined above;
> - `project-url`: validator project url, defined above;
> - `proof_of_possession`: a BLS signature created using the `authority-key`, committed over the following message: `intent || pubkey || address || epoch`; `intent` is serialized to `[5, 0, 0]` representing an intent with scope as "Proof of Possession", `version` as "V0" and `app_id` as "Iota"; `pubkey` is the serialized public key bytes of the `authority-key`; `address` is the `account-address`; `epoch` is serialized to `[0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where:

- `name`: human-readable validator name, defined above;
- `account-address`: The address derived from the `account key` public key.
- `authority-key`: The public key derived from the `authority key` private key.
- `protocol-key`: The public key derived from the `protocol key` private key.
- `network-key`: The public key derived from the `network key` private key.
- `gas-price`: An unsigned integer value indicating the gas price proposed for the first epoch. This is unused as of protocol version v5.
- `commission-rate`: The validator commission rate, i.e., the fee charged by the validator for staking services; the default set at 2% (200).
- `network-address`: The network address of the validator, defined using the `host_name`.
- `p2p-address`: The address of the validator used for p2p activities such as state sync, defined using the `host_name`.
- `primary-address`: The primary address of the validator used for the consensus, defined using the `host_name`.
- `description`: A human-readable validator description, defined above.
- `image-url`: The validator image URL, defined above.
- `project-url`: The validator project URL, defined above.
- `proof_of_possession`: A BLS signature created using the `authority-key`, committed over the following message: `intent || pubkey || address || epoch`. `intent` is serialized to `[5, 0, 0]` representing an intent with scope as "Proof of Possession", `version` as "V0" and `app_id` as "Iota". `pubkey` is the serialized public key bytes of the `authority-key`. `address` is the `account-address`. `epoch` is serialized to `[0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]`.

:::note
You may have noticed that port 8081 is using UDP, which conflicts with the firewall rules.
This is a known bug, but the node is actually communicating via TCP.
:::

```

> ### 1.5. Register as a Validator Candidate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 1.5. Register as a Validator Candidate
```

> ### 1.5. Register as a Validator Candidate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 1.5. Register as a Validator Candidate
```

Submit an on-chain transaction to become a validator candidate. The parameter is the file path to the `validator.info` generated by [Make Validator Info](#make-validator-info).

Make sure your validator account has enough IOTA to cover the gas costs.
On the Testnet you can use the Faucet to receive the necessary funds.

> > *Note: make sure your client is configured to use the correct environment
> > See 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note Environments
Make sure your client is [configured to use the correct environment](https://docs.iota.org/developer/getting-started/connect#connect-your-cli-to-a-network).
:::
```
